Update README.md (#6)
rust-embedded/not-yet-awesome-embedded-rust: README.md

>     * [nothing yet...](#)

Reviewer: Could you please update the table of contents with your items?

# The List
## Tooling ##

### Register map over protocol code generator ###

> Often a MCU is connected to other devices (IC's) with protocols like I2C and SPI. These devices have their own register map. Register access for read and write is done together with providing the right address. Often these register maps are specified in datasheets (as PDF) and it's then left up to the programmar to implement everything in code. Sometimes C files are provided as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Often a Microcontroller is connected to other devices (such as sensors or radios) using protocols like I2C and SPI. These devices have their own addressable registers. Register access for reads and writes are performed by providing the right address. Often these registers are specified in datasheets (as PDFs) and it is then left up to the programmer to implement everything in code. Sometimes C files are provided as well.
```

> This proposal is for a tool that can generate code for these register accesses. Ideally this should work for multiple protocols. Therefor it would be good to consider design for I2C and SPI (one of the two most common protocols) with each step of the implementation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This proposal is for a tool that can generate code for these register accesses. Ideally this tool should work for multiple protocols. Therefore it would be good to consider design for I2C and SPI (two of the most common protocols) with each step of the implementation.
```

> ### Implementation ###

Reviewer: Could you please rewrite this section using the provided template? In general, I would prefer to specify "what you would like", rather than "how you think it should be done". This allows people to solve the problem in any way that makes sense, rather than just the way you originally imagined.

Author: There is plenty of room for people to implement it in any way that makes sense. This is just here to give people some guidance instead of throwing them into the deep.

Author: May i remind you that CONTRIBUTING guide speaks of "This lets someone know how to implement this request". I agree that guidance on implementation is useful. I'm not going to remove this section but i might rephrase it when i get specific suggestions.

Reviewer: @flip111 in context, the guidance is:

> * Your request is clearly stated, linking to relevant documentation, such as a whitepaper, protocol definition, datasheet, etc.
>     * This lets someone know how to implement this request, and make Embedded Rust more awesome.

The idea is that your request is clearly stated (think "requirements"), and **that** is what helps people to implement this.

Author: I can rename "steps" to "requirements of parts" and leave out the hints of community discussion. But i don't see this as an improvement. Do you have a suggestion for rewrite?

4. Construct (static) rust AST. [syn](https://github.com/dtolnay/syn) is recommended because svd2rust uses it too.
5. Come up with a register definition format. Possibly similar to [SVD](https://arm-software.github.io/CMSIS_5/SVD/html/index.html). The important thing is the data structure and supported register properties. Best thing would be to create this format as rust types (intermediate representation) instead instead of directly loading from a file. This way additional file format (xml, yaml, csv) can be supported later on.
5. Now generate code. Investigate if the [code generators of svd2rust](https://github.com/rust-embedded/svd2rust/tree/master/src/generate) can be adapted to generate AST. Else it could be used as inspiration.
6. Test with another device.
7. Now would be a good time to reflect on the progress so far and discuss intergration with other rust tools.

Bonus: after establishing a register map format additional things like documentation for your driver and automated tests could be generated as well. An example of automated test could be reading back the value written to a register to verify that there are no problems with the hardware.

> ### Useful links ###

Reviewer: I do like the Useful Links section, could you please reformat it to be a bit more readable? Maybe something like the following:

```
**Useful Links:**

* The [CMSIS definition], which is useful because of ...
* [`svd2rust`], a tool that does something similar for Memory Mapped Peripherals
* ...

[CMSIS definition]: https://...
[`svd2rust`]: https://...
```

* https://arm-software.github.io/CMSIS_5/SVD/html/index.html
* https://github.com/rust-embedded/svd2rust
* https://github.com/braun-robotics/rust-dw1000/blob/master/src/ll.rs#L597 (mentioned by hannobraun)
* https://github.com/dtwood/tm4c-hal/blob/ethernet-draft/tm4c129x-hal/src/edes.rs (mentioned by theJPster)
* https://github.com/rust-embedded/register-rs#defining-mmio-registers (mentioned by japaric)
* https://github.com/rust-embedded/embedded-hal

## Displays and GUI ##

> ### LittlevGL GUI ###

Reviewer: Could you please use the template providing in the CONTRIBUTING guide?

Author: The template is not actually a template because providing one example is not a template. Please give more specific suggestions what you are missing here.

https://github.com/rust-embedded/not-yet-awesome-embedded-rust#not-yet-awesome-item-template

Author: Following this "template"

* Work in progress is not applicable
* Background: basically comes down to "a binding would be nice"
* Success Criteria: comes down to "there is a binding"
